# Personal Pomodoro

## Description
This is an online personal pomodoro timer with an inbuilt quote generator and a todo list for your top three tasks so you can keep trakc of what you get done during the pomodoro timer. I made the actual pomodoro timer part of the code using a tutorial by Codedex and then added the additional stuff on my own. I also followed a tutorial by Codedex for the Todo list to m make a seperate todo list website and I linked it in this project so the user can use that side by side. It was a really fun project to make and I hope you liked it too!

## Technologies used
- HTML
- CSS
- JavaScript

## How I made this project
I had started making this project as a way of practicing coding by following the codedex tutorials. So I decided to might as well put this is in as another project for Athena Awards CLub. This app has the pomodoro on the left side of the screen and then a quote generator and a small todo list link on the right side. I've placed them side by side to make the UI look simple and not too distracting so that the user can focus on what work they have to do instead of having to scroll every time they needed motivation from the quote generator or update their todo list. I have also added sound effects using free sounds online. I added a starting bell and an ending bell to notify the user. When the pomodoro timer ends, a popup box appears asking if the user wants to go take a break. If yes, it takes the user to the break page which also has a timer similar to the pomodoro timer except it is for 5 minutess. I wanted to make it more customizable by making the user put in how much time they want to take a break for but I decided against it and thought to put it in at a later date if I ever want to. I initially didnt know how to code a popup box to appear, so i resorted to the internet and youtube to learn the code and implement it. The break page is similar to the main page except theres only the timer and a vibrant background so the user can take a break. After the timer runs out, another popup appears similar to the other popup in the main page. Regarding the quote generator, I had learnt to make it while I was attending Girls Who Code. And regarding the todolist, I just pasted the link to my todolist project website so the user can use that seperately. This project is comparatively more easier than the other projects I made for Athena but this was still a learning process for me since I didnt know all the topics. There were a couple of bugs at the start when I was coding the pomodoro timer but I overcame them and finished building it. I took at least 9 hours to do all the code and debug everything. I had also tried alternatives for the popup box but they werent as effective and I had a different layout for the entire app where the user had to scroll everytime, and I felt it as annoyign so I had to reposition everything, which took quite some time. All the art you see on the app is handmade by me. The background artwork for both the pages was made by me and it took at least 3 hours since I had to find the exact positions and points for placement to make everything look seamless. I had a lot of fun making this app since I had a lot of the topics down. And I hope to make many more additions to this app. 
